.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.TH fai.conf 5 "18 January 2012" "FAI 4.0"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
fai.conf \- FAI Configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/fai/fai.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
FAI - Fully Automatic Installation - allows for non-interactive
initial installation and online maintenance ("softupdates") of operating systems
according to a user-defined configuration.
See
.BR fai (8)
for the possible operation modes of FAI.
.LP
To manage a set of configurations, FAI implements a concept of
classes, i.e., a list of symbolic names, which is determined at the start of
FAI on a given host.
Each host is associated with an ordered set of classes.
.LP
The configuration for a target host consists of two parts:
.IP \(bu
The
\fINFSROOT\fP, a very basic yet complete root file system,
which is exported to clients.
The NFSROOT is built using
.BR fai-make-nfsroot (8).
.IP \(bu
The
\fIconfiguration space\fP, which is loaded as one of the first steps of a FAI run.
Several tools and protocols are supported for maintaining and accessing the
configuration space.
See
.BR FAI_CONFIG_SRC
below.
.LP
.BR fai.conf
defines the essential options to successfully start a FAI run.

.SH VARIABLES
.BR fai.conf
is sourced by
.BR fai (8)
and other scripts of fai and thus must be valid
.BR bash (1)
code.
All variables described below are variables that must be assigned to use
.BR bash (1)
syntax.

.TP
\fBFAI_CONFIG_SRC\fP URL to access configuration space
A protocol-specific URL defining the server and directory/repository to fetch
the configuration space from.
If left undefined, the assumed default value is
nfs://<install server>/$FAI_CONFIGDIR
.LP
The following protocols and URL schemes are currently supported:
.IP \(bu
NFS: nfs://<server>/<exported directory>
.IP \(bu
Local file: file://<directory>
.IP \(bu
CVS: cvs[+ssh]://<user>@<host>/<cvs root> <module>[=<tag>]
.IP \(bu
Subversion: svn[+(file|http|https|ssh)]://[<user>@]<host>/<repository>
.IP \(bu
Git: git[+<protocol>]://<git path>
.IP \(bu
Mercurial: hg+(http|https)://<hg path>
.IP \(bu
HTTP: http://<server>/<filename>
where <filename> is a (compressed) tar archive. For verification purposes, also
an
.BR md5sum (1)
generated hash must exist at the same location as <filename>.md5.

.TP
\fBLOGUSER\fP Account name on the install server to save log files and call
.BR fai-chboot (8).
At the end of an installation,
.BR fai (8)
may connect to the install server using
.BR FAI_LOGPROTO
(see below) to store the generated log files and to change the network boot
configuration of the target host.
To fully enable this, configure .rhosts and PAM such that the configured user
can log in from all install clients without password.
This account should have write permissions for /srv/tftp/fai. For example, you
can use write permissions for the group linuxadm. chgrp linuxadm
/srv/tftp/fai;chmod g+w /srv/tftp/fai.
If the variable is undefined, this feature is disabled.

.TP
\fBFAI_LOGPROTO\fP Protocol for saving logs
Supported values are: ssh, rsh, and ftp. If undefined use ssh. Will only be used
if
.BR LOGUSER
is set.

.TP
\fBFAI_DEBMIRROR\fP Access Debian mirror via NFS-mounted directory
If defined, install clients mount the NFS share to $MNTPOINT.
Syntax: <host>:<exported directory>

.TP
\fBFAI_ABORT\fP Default action on FAI abort
Valid values are reboot and poweroff. Defaults to reboot.

.TP
\fBFAI_DIE_SLEEPING\fP Default action on die
Integer value to sleep N seconds in case of a fatal error (die).
Defaults to -1, which will result in an interactive shell instead of a sleep.

.TP
\fBFAI_DIE_SEVERITY\fP Minimal error severity to abort FAI.
Valid values are warn, error and fatal. Defaults to fatal.

.TP
\fBFAI_DIE_ON_ERROR\fP Exact error code to abort FAI.
This variable contains the an FAI error code, which will abort FAI. It
defaults to 0, which is no error code, so only FAI_DIE_SEVERITY is used. Be
aware that fatal errors will always abort FAI, except if they are explicitly
skipped using fai_skiperror <error code>.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR fai (8),
.BR fai\-make-nfsroot (8),
.BR fai\-setup (8),
.BR fai\-mirror (1),
.BR fai\-cd (8)

.br
This file is part of FAI (Fully Automatic Installation).  See the FAI
manual for more information.  The FAI homepage is http://fai-project.org.

.SH AUTHOR
This man page was written by Michael Tautschnig <mt@debian.org>.
